---
layout: post
title: Install macOS to SSD
---

So you're now ready to finally put the USB stick into your computer and boot off of it. Remember that most laptops and some desktops will still default to the internal drive with Windows, and you'll need to manually select OpenCore in the BIOS boot options. You'll need to check in the user manual or use a bit of google to find out what Fn key accesses the BIOS and boot menu(ie. Esc, F2, F10 or F12).

Once you boot the USB, you'll likely be greeted to the following boot options:

1. Windows
2. macOS Base System (External) / Install macOS <macOS version> (External)
3. OpenShell.efi
4. Reset NVRAM

For me, **Option 2.** is the one we want. Depending how the installer was made, it may report as either **"macOS Base System (External)"** if created in Linux or Windows and **"Install macOS <macOS version> (External)"** if created in macOS.

## macOS Installer

If you pass through the verbose, congratulation!

Now that you've gotten this far, the main things to keep in mind:

- Drives you wish to install macOS on **must** be both of GUID partition Scheme **and** APFS
    - High Sierra on HDD and all Sierra users will need to use macOS Journaled(HFS+)
- The drive **must** also have a 200MB partition
    - By default, macOS will setup freshly formatted drives with 200MB

So, in my opinion, there are few things to note and do before installing:

- If your machine has multiple drives and there is a drive for macOS only, not need to worry. Just erase and install macOS normally.
- If your machine has only one drive for both macOS and Windows, there are 2 situations:
    - Windows already in and you don't want to keep it: Erase the disk using Disk Utility and install macOS normally. You can install Windows later if you want (recommend to use WinNT in WinPE Environment).
    - Windows already in and you want to keep it:
        1. Make sure the EFI partition is at least 200MB. If not, you have to create it. Remember to backup **Microsoft** folder first, it is Windows's boot.
        2. A partition for installing macOS, which is formatted as ExFAT.
        3. If the EFI partition is already had, just erase the ExFAT partition (NOT the disk) to APFS (GUID Partition Scheme). Then select it for installing macOS.
